Welcome back we've created a very very basic web site.
And up until now if we look at the code we could build perhaps our own blog platform where we just have
pages for our blog posts or our company information and we got up and running really really quickly.
But as we know most of the time apps are a lot more complex than that.
They're dynamic.
They have API calls that they need to make and get data and change parts of the Web site based on that
data.
Kind of like we did with the robo friends app.
We have to fetch the robots in our component did mount and then finally render it on our page.
So in this video let's see how we can do that how you can have dynamic apps with next well next allows
us to do this with an API called Get initial props and with that we can fetch data for a given page
let's say a new page or we're about to build and it will pass it down to the component as a prop.
Again just simply react.
The cool thing about this that we'll see is that we can decide to do the API call on the server before
it gets rendered and sent to the client.
Or we can do this API call on the front end to all the client where once we give it the page it will
load it separately.
So let's get started.
The very first thing we need to do is in order for us to be able to do a fetch call because that is
only available on the browser and we're not running this in the browser.
This is going to be on the server side.
We need to have access to fetch and we can just install a package that's recommended.
If you're working with next and server side it's called well let's run NPM not capital NPM install and
it's called high so morphic on fetch We are name I know.
All right so now that we can use fetch on the client side let's create a new page here.
I'm going to say new file is going to be called robots
yes robots that Jesus is going to have a few things.
It's first of all going to use the link from the next link a link component and it's also going to import
the Thach that we just downloaded from the isomorphic on fetch package
and we're pretty familiar with the syntax by now I can just do a concert robots.
He calls will not questionmark like this.
There you go.
And we're going to return here a component and let's say that this component is going to be a div that
has an H1 tag that says robots and a nother div that inside of it will have some sort of robot's data.
For now we'll just going to type it in.
But hopefully we can fetch and render some data in here.
And we can close this out like this and perhaps at the bottom or at the top we can add a link that references
the home page so we can go back to the home page if we wanted to.
And this will just be a button that says home.
And then finally close out our link and then let's not forget to export default robots.
Let's save that and also go back to our main page
and in the main page make sure that we add a nother link tag to the robot's page.
And that's going to be referencing the robots.
And actually four pages the default is to or the standard just to keep the files lowercase are going
to change the two lowercase robots just to keep up the standards.
All right.
So let's change the link over here to our robots page.
Again that's why we have the lower case.
So it looks Gneisenau you are all point to save and to make sure that the robot's page has the link
as well.
Let's run the PM start which runs the next and see what happens here.
All right.
We have two bands now but they both say robots.
Let's go back here.
If we go to our index side yes let's keep let's make that about a boot.
I am from Canada after all.
All right.
We have the About page and the robot's page and we have an arrow over here says syntax here.
I really like the errors that they display here unexpected tokin.
So let's go back here to our robots.
And yep a set of curly brackets.
You actually need brackets here.
Let's save.
There you go.
Our robust page is working.
It's pretty ugly right now but everything is working at least if you remember with our robot friends
app we're using something called Jason placeholder and this Jaisalmer placeholder gives us a user's
end point that we can use over here.
He can see the Jason that we get when we do a get request using this you r l.
Let's load up some data here.
And the way we do this here is to add get initial props from robots so we can pass these robots down
as props.
Bear with me here and we'll explain it as we go.
I'm going to add a new method.
Called get initial props and yeah we're just adding a method to robots.
This is another way of doing it instead of perhaps the class method that you've seen before.
And and here we're going to use async Oh wait we could do promises but let's use async function.
And in here we're going to do our response.
Whoops response that is going to say wait the fetch which we have access to now and it's going to be
there you are.
Well we just copied the Jason placeholders and just to have a little bit of a better view.
I'm going to say.
Then we don't need them because we have the await now.
From now we'll say the concert data is going to be called The await response dot.
Jason.
And then finally we can just return
so we can return this data.
Let's say that robots is going to be returned with the data.
As the name suggests we have a few errors here.
And let's see what we've done.
We don't need the semicolon here.
Everything is working as the name suggests.
All we're saying is Hey before we load up this robotic thing let's get some props for it.
We're going to do an initial props.
We're going to make an API call to this and point get all our data.
Remember this is the data that we're getting and then loaded up as robots and what we can do now is
in the robots.
I have props now because again the name suggests get initial props and these props now have the robots
property on them.
So now let's say instead of having the robots data here we're actually going to use loops.
We're actually going to use a better syntax.
And again curly brackets so it's the javascript expression and we'll say that prop's dot robots.
We're going to map over these robots and this is very similar to what we've done in our re-act app where
we grab the robots and we can let's say create an ally that has a key of a robot.
ID Again remember we have ID name user name email here that we receive.
And you know what.
For now let's just do that and see what happens to make sure that it works.
Let's save that see if we get any error.
No let's go back to our page and click on robots and just we just had to refresh a bit and see what
we get here.
Let's see if we get any errors.
Fail too low resources the rest.
Oh ok that's Fab.com us fine.
All right.
Everything is working.
We're just not loading the IDs as we think although we are loading 10 list items.
And if we actually go back it's because I'm not rendering anything so let's just say that.
And here we're going to load up robots or robot name.
Let's save go back here and look at that.
Our data is loaded and you can see that this is very similar to what we do in our robot friends app.
We're just simply using this Jaisalmer placeholder to grab our robots and then using another API to
grab the robot images and I'm lacking a bit of CSSA care but the idea is all the same.
Let's make this a little bit prettier.
What if we wanted to have links to each one of these robots a robots profile for example.
Well we can use the link tag again.
Set this time around we can say link Tref is going to
link to and I'm using Templi strings here.
There's these quotes right above the tab of your keyboard and Templi strings by the way are ESX features
so hopefully you're familiar with them.
We're going to say a robot.
And then I'm going to give it the idea.
So let's say
a robot got ID.
So we're saying go to the link or Jarrell railed that is robot or we should do robots here because that's
what we have here for this page.
And then within here we'll leave the robot name the way it is but close the link tag like so let's save
and see what happens here.
Get in there here because I need to close this component
merry go and I get an error saying that you're using a string directly inside a link.
This usage has been deprecated because we should wrap this in some sort of a tag.
So let's just say an ATAC for now.
Let's save and go back or look at that.
Now I have these links but check out this your Albar as I click on it.
Look at that.
I go to robots one by go back I go to robots to page.
And obviously we don't have the pages yet because we haven't created those files in the pages folder.
But you see here how easily we're able to link to profiles if we want.
How cool is that.
Again things work really really fast and really really easily in next.
Now let's do one last thing.
I want to console log the data here.
If I save here now that we have a console or log data let's see what happens on the browser side.
If I open up the console again I see that there's Amaar which stands for a hot module.
Reloading is just always watching for changes so we don't have to worry about that.
If I click on robots all right I'm getting the console log on the front end nothing on the server on
request but if I refresh this again
you see that nothing happened on the console.
But if I go back you see that on the server it has been logged as consul to log data what just happened
here.
You see that's because when we render the page on the server we already have the data and there's no
reason to fetch it again on the client.
So in that case refreshing the page never fetch the data on the client which is very very cool.
All right.
I think you're starting to get the idea of next yes and how easy it is to do server side rendering Now
you can probably go off on your own and rebuild the entire Roble friends up using next and comparing
the differences there.
I highly recommend you check out this library.
As always they have great documentation and I hope you explore how you can create even bigger apps than
this.
I'll see in the next one.
But by.